NEW ONE Interview Questions:

❖ Is there a way to erase all files in the current directory, including all its sub-directories, using 
only one command?
ANS: rm -r command  is using for erase all files in the current directory including all its sub-directories.

❖ What is a directory? 
AND:
❖ Differentiate relative path from an absolute path.
❖ Enumerate some of the most commonly used network commands in UNIX
❖ Differentiate cmp command from diff command.
❖ What is the use of -l when listing a directory?
❖ What is piping?
❖ How do you determine and set the path in UNIX?
❖ Is it possible to see information about a process while it is being executed?
❖ Differentiate cat command from more command.
❖ What is pid?
❖ How does the system know where one command ends and another begins?
❖ What is the output of this command? $who | sort –logfile > newfile
❖ What would be the effect of changing the value of PATH to: .:/usr/della/bin: /bin: /usr/bin
❖ Write a command that will display files in the current directory, in a colored, long format.
❖ What does this command do? cat food 1 > kitty
❖ What is wrong with this interactive shell script?
❖ Describe the usage and functionality of the command “rm –r *” in UNIX?
❖ What is the UNIX command to list files/folders in alphabetical order?
❖ What is the behavioral difference between “cmp” and “diff” commands?
❖ What are the duties of the following commands: chmod, chown, chgrp?
❖ What is the command to find today’s date?
❖ Describe the zip/unzip command using gzip?
❖ Explain the method of changing file access permission?
❖ How to display the last line of a file?
❖ How to Kill a process in UNIX?
❖ Explain the advantage of executing processes in the background?
❖ What is the command to find maximum memory taking process on the server?
❖ What is the command to find hidden files in the current directory?
❖ What is the command to find the currently running process in Unix Server?
❖ What is the command to find remaining disk space in the UNIX server?
❖ What is the UNIX command to make a new directory?
❖ What is the method to see command line history?
❖ What is the UNIX command to find how many days the server is up?
❖ What is the purpose of the “echo” command?
❖ What is the method to edit a large file without opening it in UNIX?
❖ What is the process to count the number of characters and lines in a file?
❖ Write a command to erase all files in the current directory including all its subdirectories.
❖ What do you understand by command substitution?
❖ Enlist some commonly used network commands.
❖ How is cmp command different from diff command?
❖ Explain the types of pathnames that can be used in UNIX.
❖ Absolute Pathname: It defines a complete path specifying the location of a file/ directory from 
the beginning of the actual file system i.e. 
❖ from the root directory (/
❖ Absolute pathname addresses system configuration files that do not change location.
❖ Relative Pathname: It defines the path from the current working directory where the user is i.e. 
the present working directory (pwd
❖ Enlist some filename manipulation commands in UNIX.
❖ Explain the alias mechanism.

❖ What do you know about wildcard interpretation?
❖ Explain pid.
❖ What are the possible return values of kill
❖ What do you know about tee command and its usage?
❖ Explain mount and unmount command.
❖ What is the “chmod” command?
------------------------------------------Thank You--------------------------------------------